README.md, before:

# Cognito-Keycloak

AWS Cognito wrapper for Keycloak - a local development tool that provides
Cognito-compatible APIs backed by Keycloak.

## Overview

This project allows you to develop and test applications that use AWS Cognito
without needing an actual AWS account. It translates Cognito API calls to
Keycloak's Admin REST API, while OAuth 2.0/OIDC endpoints are proxied directly
to Keycloak.

**Key feature:** Distributed as a single Docker image containing both Keycloak
and the Cognito API wrapper — no docker-compose or multiple containers needed.

## Quick Start

```bash
# Run the all-in-one container
docker run -p 4566:4566 -p 8080:8080 cognito-keycloak

# Or build and run locally
docker build -t cognito-keycloak .
docker run -p 4566:4566 -p 8080:8080 cognito-keycloak
```

This starts:

- **Cognito API** on `http://localhost:4566`
- **Keycloak** on `http://localhost:8080` (admin/admin)

### Configuration

Override defaults with environment variables:

```bash
docker run -p 4566:4566 -p 8080:8080 \
  -e KC_BOOTSTRAP_ADMIN_USERNAME=myadmin \
  -e KC_BOOTSTRAP_ADMIN_PASSWORD=mysecret \
  -e USER_POOL_ID=my_pool \
  cognito-keycloak
```

| Variable                      | Default      | Description              |
| ----------------------------- | ------------ | ------------------------ |
| `PORT`                        | `4566`       | Port for the Cognito API |
| `KC_BOOTSTRAP_ADMIN_USERNAME` | `admin`      | Keycloak admin username  |
| `KC_BOOTSTRAP_ADMIN_PASSWORD` | `admin`      | Keycloak admin password  |
| `USER_POOL_ID`                | `local_pool` | Hardcoded user pool ID   |

## Local Development

For development on this project itself:

```bash
# Install dependencies
bun install

# Start Keycloak (required for the wrapper to function)
docker run -d --name keycloak -p 8080:8080 \
  -e KC_BOOTSTRAP_ADMIN_USERNAME=admin \
  -e KC_BOOTSTRAP_ADMIN_PASSWORD=admin \
  -v $(pwd)/keycloak:/opt/keycloak/data/import \
  quay.io/keycloak/keycloak:26.0 start-dev --import-realm

# Start the wrapper in development mode
bun run dev
```

## Endpoints

### Cognito IDP API

All Cognito actions are sent as `POST` requests to `/` with the `X-Amz-Target`
header:

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:4566/ \
  -H "Content-Type: application/x-amz-json-1.1" \
  -H "X-Amz-Target: AWSCognitoIdentityProviderService.ListUsers" \
  -d '{"UserPoolId": "local_pool"}'
```

### OAuth 2.0 / OIDC Endpoints

| Endpoint                                | Description              |
| --------------------------------------- | ------------------------ |
| `GET /.well-known/openid-configuration` | OpenID Connect Discovery |
| `GET /.well-known/jwks.json`            | JSON Web Key Set         |
| `GET /oauth2/authorize`                 | Authorization endpoint   |
| `POST /oauth2/token`                    | Token endpoint           |
| `GET/POST /oauth2/userInfo`             | UserInfo endpoint        |
| `POST /oauth2/revoke`                   | Token revocation         |
| `GET/POST /logout`                      | Logout endpoint          |

## Supported Actions

### User Management

- `AdminCreateUser` - Create a new user
- `AdminDeleteUser` - Delete a user
- `AdminGetUser` - Get user details
- `AdminUpdateUserAttributes` - Update user attributes
- `AdminDeleteUserAttributes` - Delete specific user attributes
- `AdminSetUserPassword` - Set user password
- `AdminResetUserPassword` - Reset user password and trigger reset flow
- `AdminEnableUser` - Enable a user
- `AdminDisableUser` - Disable a user
- `AdminConfirmSignUp` - Confirm user registration
- `AdminUserGlobalSignOut` - Sign out user from all devices
- `ListUsers` - List all users

### Group Management

- `CreateGroup` - Create a new group
- `GetGroup` - Get group details
- `UpdateGroup` - Update group attributes
- `DeleteGroup` - Delete a group
- `ListGroups` - List all groups
- `ListUsersInGroup` - List users in a group
- `AdminListGroupsForUser` - List groups for a user
- `AdminAddUserToGroup` - Add a user to a group
- `AdminRemoveUserFromGroup` - Remove a user from a group

### User Pool

- `DescribeUserPool` - Get user pool configuration

## Usage with AWS SDK

Configure the AWS SDK to use this local endpoint:

```typescript
import { CognitoIdentityProviderClient } from "@aws-sdk/client-cognito-identity-provider";

const client = new CognitoIdentityProviderClient({
  endpoint: "http://localhost:4566",
  region: "us-east-1",
  credentials: {
    accessKeyId: "local",
    secretAccessKey: "local",
  },
});
```

## Usage with AWS CLI

```bash
aws cognito-idp list-users \
  --region us-east-1 \
  --endpoint-url http://localhost:4566 \
  --user-pool-id local_pool
```

## Keycloak UI

Access the Keycloak admin console at `http://localhost:8080` with:

- Username: `admin`
- Password: `admin`

## Architecture

```
┌────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                     Single Docker Container                        │
│  ┌──────────────────┐         ┌──────────────────┐                │
│  │   Cognito API    │         │    Keycloak      │                │
│  │   (Port 4566)    │────────▶│   (Port 8080)    │                │
│  │                  │         │                  │                │
│  │ • Cognito IDP    │         │ • Admin REST API │                │
│  │ • OAuth Proxy    │         │ • OIDC Endpoints │                │
│  └──────────────────┘         └──────────────────┘                │
└────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                              Your App
```

The container uses Bun's single-file executable feature to bundle the wrapper
into a standalone binary with no external dependencies, which is then embedded
alongside Keycloak in a single image.

## Testing

Tests use the official AWS SDK against the Cognito API. Keycloak must be
running:

```bash
# Option 1: Run the all-in-one container (with Keycloak on port 8080)
docker run -d --name cognito-test -p 8080:8080 cognito-keycloak

# Option 2: Run just Keycloak for development
docker run -d --name keycloak -p 8080:8080 \
  -e KC_BOOTSTRAP_ADMIN_USERNAME=admin \
  -e KC_BOOTSTRAP_ADMIN_PASSWORD=admin \
  -v $(pwd)/keycloak:/opt/keycloak/data/import \
  quay.io/keycloak/keycloak:26.0 start-dev --import-realm

# Run all tests (with Keycloak on default port 8080)
bun test

# If Keycloak is running on a different port, set KEYCLOAK_URL:
KEYCLOAK_URL=http://localhost:8180 bun test

# Watch mode
bun test --watch
```

The test suite includes:

- Integration tests (health, users, user pool)
- Conformance tests (compares emulator vs real AWS Cognito)

For diff tests against real AWS, configure credentials via AWS CLI
(`aws sso login`) and set `REAL_USER_POOL_ID` in `.env`:

```
REAL_USER_POOL_ID=us-east-1_xxxxxxxx
```

## Building the Docker Image

```bash
# Build the image
docker build -t cognito-keycloak .

# Run the container
docker run -p 4566:4566 -p 8080:8080 cognito-keycloak
```

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Update licence to be compliant with Keycloak

README.md, after:

# Cognito-Keycloak

AWS Cognito wrapper for Keycloak - a local development tool that provides
Cognito-compatible APIs backed by Keycloak.

## Overview

This project allows you to develop and test applications that use AWS Cognito
without needing an actual AWS account. It translates Cognito API calls to
Keycloak's Admin REST API, while OAuth 2.0/OIDC endpoints are proxied directly
to Keycloak.

**Key feature:** Distributed as a single Docker image containing both Keycloak
and the Cognito API wrapper — no docker-compose or multiple containers needed.

## Quick Start

```bash
# Run the all-in-one container
docker run -p 4566:4566 -p 8080:8080 cognito-keycloak

# Or build and run locally
docker build -t cognito-keycloak .
docker run -p 4566:4566 -p 8080:8080 cognito-keycloak
```

This starts:

- **Cognito API** on `http://localhost:4566`
- **Keycloak** on `http://localhost:8080` (admin/admin)

### Configuration

Override defaults with environment variables:

```bash
docker run -p 4566:4566 -p 8080:8080 \
  -e KC_BOOTSTRAP_ADMIN_USERNAME=myadmin \
  -e KC_BOOTSTRAP_ADMIN_PASSWORD=mysecret \
  -e USER_POOL_ID=my_pool \
  cognito-keycloak
```

| Variable                      | Default      | Description              |
| ----------------------------- | ------------ | ------------------------ |
| `PORT`                        | `4566`       | Port for the Cognito API |
| `KC_BOOTSTRAP_ADMIN_USERNAME` | `admin`      | Keycloak admin username  |
| `KC_BOOTSTRAP_ADMIN_PASSWORD` | `admin`      | Keycloak admin password  |
| `USER_POOL_ID`                | `local_pool` | Hardcoded user pool ID   |

## Local Development

For development on this project itself:

```bash
# Install dependencies
bun install

# Start Keycloak (required for the wrapper to function)
docker run -d --name keycloak -p 8080:8080 \
  -e KC_BOOTSTRAP_ADMIN_USERNAME=admin \
  -e KC_BOOTSTRAP_ADMIN_PASSWORD=admin \
  -v $(pwd)/keycloak:/opt/keycloak/data/import \
  quay.io/keycloak/keycloak:26.0 start-dev --import-realm

# Start the wrapper in development mode
bun run dev
```

## Endpoints

### Cognito IDP API

All Cognito actions are sent as `POST` requests to `/` with the `X-Amz-Target`
header:

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:4566/ \
  -H "Content-Type: application/x-amz-json-1.1" \
  -H "X-Amz-Target: AWSCognitoIdentityProviderService.ListUsers" \
  -d '{"UserPoolId": "local_pool"}'
```

### OAuth 2.0 / OIDC Endpoints

| Endpoint                                | Description              |
| --------------------------------------- | ------------------------ |
| `GET /.well-known/openid-configuration` | OpenID Connect Discovery |
| `GET /.well-known/jwks.json`            | JSON Web Key Set         |
| `GET /oauth2/authorize`                 | Authorization endpoint   |
| `POST /oauth2/token`                    | Token endpoint           |
| `GET/POST /oauth2/userInfo`             | UserInfo endpoint        |
| `POST /oauth2/revoke`                   | Token revocation         |
| `GET/POST /logout`                      | Logout endpoint          |

## Supported Actions

### User Management

- `AdminCreateUser` - Create a new user
- `AdminDeleteUser` - Delete a user
- `AdminGetUser` - Get user details
- `AdminUpdateUserAttributes` - Update user attributes
- `AdminDeleteUserAttributes` - Delete specific user attributes
- `AdminSetUserPassword` - Set user password
- `AdminResetUserPassword` - Reset user password and trigger reset flow
- `AdminEnableUser` - Enable a user
- `AdminDisableUser` - Disable a user
- `AdminConfirmSignUp` - Confirm user registration
- `AdminUserGlobalSignOut` - Sign out user from all devices
- `ListUsers` - List all users

### Group Management

- `CreateGroup` - Create a new group
- `GetGroup` - Get group details
- `UpdateGroup` - Update group attributes
- `DeleteGroup` - Delete a group
- `ListGroups` - List all groups
- `ListUsersInGroup` - List users in a group
- `AdminListGroupsForUser` - List groups for a user
- `AdminAddUserToGroup` - Add a user to a group
- `AdminRemoveUserFromGroup` - Remove a user from a group

### User Pool

- `DescribeUserPool` - Get user pool configuration

## Usage with AWS SDK

Configure the AWS SDK to use this local endpoint:

```typescript
import { CognitoIdentityProviderClient } from "@aws-sdk/client-cognito-identity-provider";

const client = new CognitoIdentityProviderClient({
  endpoint: "http://localhost:4566",
  region: "us-east-1",
  credentials: {
    accessKeyId: "local",
    secretAccessKey: "local",
  },
});
```

## Usage with AWS CLI

```bash
aws cognito-idp list-users \
  --region us-east-1 \
  --endpoint-url http://localhost:4566 \
  --user-pool-id local_pool
```

## Keycloak UI

Access the Keycloak admin console at `http://localhost:8080` with:

- Username: `admin`
- Password: `admin`

## Architecture

```
┌────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                     Single Docker Container                        │
│  ┌──────────────────┐         ┌──────────────────┐                │
│  │   Cognito API    │         │    Keycloak      │                │
│  │   (Port 4566)    │────────▶│   (Port 8080)    │                │
│  │                  │         │                  │                │
│  │ • Cognito IDP    │         │ • Admin REST API │                │
│  │ • OAuth Proxy    │         │ • OIDC Endpoints │                │
│  └──────────────────┘         └──────────────────┘                │
└────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                              Your App
```

The container uses Bun's single-file executable feature to bundle the wrapper
into a standalone binary with no external dependencies, which is then embedded
alongside Keycloak in a single image.

## Testing

Tests use the official AWS SDK against the Cognito API. Keycloak must be
running:

```bash
# Option 1: Run the all-in-one container (with Keycloak on port 8080)
docker run -d --name cognito-test -p 8080:8080 cognito-keycloak

# Option 2: Run just Keycloak for development
docker run -d --name keycloak -p 8080:8080 \
  -e KC_BOOTSTRAP_ADMIN_USERNAME=admin \
  -e KC_BOOTSTRAP_ADMIN_PASSWORD=admin \
  -v $(pwd)/keycloak:/opt/keycloak/data/import \
  quay.io/keycloak/keycloak:26.0 start-dev --import-realm

# Run all tests (with Keycloak on default port 8080)
bun test

# If Keycloak is running on a different port, set KEYCLOAK_URL:
KEYCLOAK_URL=http://localhost:8180 bun test

# Watch mode
bun test --watch
```

The test suite includes:

- Integration tests (health, users, user pool)
- Conformance tests (compares emulator vs real AWS Cognito)

For diff tests against real AWS, configure credentials via AWS CLI
(`aws sso login`) and set `REAL_USER_POOL_ID` in `.env`:

```
REAL_USER_POOL_ID=us-east-1_xxxxxxxx
```

## Building the Docker Image

```bash
# Build the image
docker build -t cognito-keycloak .

# Run the container
docker run -p 4566:4566 -p 8080:8080 cognito-keycloak
```

## License

Apache License 2.0

This project is licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

This project includes Keycloak, which is also distributed under the Apache License, Version 2.0. See the [NOTICE](NOTICE) file for attribution information.
